---
layout: article
title: It Was Awesome.
---

The title really says it all.  Seriously.  I recently had the chance to
make a very special trip to the Googleplex. It is an event I definitely
won't forget for a *really* long time.

I met and socialized with a students and mentors from all over the
world—including from Thailand, Russia, South Africa, the UK, Germany,
Poland, Switzerland, Belgium and the USA—to celebrate the conclusion of
the first-ever Google Highly Open Participation Contest.  In addition
to all of this social interaction, I had the chance to ride roller
coasters at Great America, tour the Googleplex, talk to other GHOP
students and mentors, eat at two of Google's famous cafés, and listen
to a set of amazing presentations by various tech luminaries who work
for Google.

Today, I decided to put together a recap entry about the activities of
the two days and what we did during them:

Thursday
--------

I started the day by driving down to the hotel with my mom where the
other GHOP students were staying for the four days of their trip.  We
picked up our Google/GHOP swag kits, which each included various items
such as:  a hat, a backpack, a sweatshirt, a t-shirt, etc.  Afterwards,
we proceeded to talk to other students about the projects that we
worked on.

A few minutes later, our group's bus arrived and then we drove off to
the secret location of where breakfast was supposed to be.  As the bus
stopped, people began to chuckle.  We were going to have our
celebratory GHOP breakfast at an IHOP restaurant!

Many fun discussions, a set of pancakes cut into the shapes of specific
letters and arranged so they said GHOP, and several group photos later,
we all boarded our bus and headed off to our next destination: Great
America.  We spent the rest of the day (until 7pm) riding roller
coasters, water rides, and other various attractions.  At 7pm, we
boarded our bus and went back to the hotel.  While many decided to go
to the Bay Area Python Interest Group's meeting, I instead decided to
go home (I was much too tired).

Friday
------

On Friday, we all started the day by meeting in the lobby of the hotel.
After thirty minutes of fun, interesting discussions, our bus stopped
in front of the hotel.  We all hopped on board and began the short
journey off to the Googleplex.

When bright, multi-colored umbrellas appeared next to the bus, we all
knew that we were there.  We all jumped off the bus, signed in, and
headed off to Café Moma for breakfast.  We spent breakfast discussing
our various open-source projects.  Roughly an hour later, we went on a
tour of the Googleplex.

Around 11 AM, we began our awards ceremony. Chris DiBona, Alan Eustace,
and Leslie Hawthorn led the awards ceremony, gave speeches, and handed
out the awards to students. Mentors, students, and parents posed for
photos.

Afterwards, we all walked over to Charlie's Café and had lunch.  I had
the opportunity to have lunch with Alexander Limi, co-founder of the
Plone project. During lunch, various student/mentor pairs were taken
to a rather shiny Google video studio and interviewed for use on
YouTube.  Alexander Limi and I were interviewed in one of these videos.

After another group photo session in front of Google signs, we went
back to the room where the awards ceremony occurred and finished the
day by listening to a set of talks given by tech-industry stars such as
Guido van Rossum, Romain Guy, Jeff Dean, Bharat Mediratta, and Mike
Bland.  Halfway though the talks, we took a short break to devour a
beautifully-made cake with the GHOP logo on it.

Photos
------

You can find photos of the event in the
[ghop07 tag](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/ghop07/) on Flickr and in
the [ghop07 tag](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/searchbrowse?q=ghop07#0+1)
on Picasa Web Albums.
